Urban labyrinths: on navigating the city without a car
I can't drive and I need it to be everyone else's problem too
Urban Space
Navigation
Access
Privatization
Interactive Maps
Automobility has degraded the social fabric of urban centres. Roads and other
automotive infrastructure are prioritized, leaving limited space for other means of
travel. As a result, sidewalks functionally serve as open-air tunnels. This lack of
public walkable space fosters isolation and hinders connection to one’s local
community.
This topic is discussed by Jane Jacobs and similar researchers in the field of urban
design. Jacobs criticizes car-centric city design and the privatization of urban space,
arguing that this approach actively discourages social connections that previously
thrived in cities. Modern urban designers and architects are increasingly
championing human-scaled infrastructure to solve the issues set out by researchers
like Jacobs. Many books and articles have been created discussing these topics, and
1
some cities are adopting pedestrian and bicycle friendly infrastructure projects in
response to these findings.
I feel I have a distinct perspective on the issue as an adult who does not drive, and
intend to use this to enrich the project. Looking at the abundance of roads and
parking spaces on my walking commutes, I can't help but wonder what could fill that
space if it was not singularly useful to cars. Roads must accommodate for the
inherent danger of motor vehicles, forcing that space to fit a single purpose.
Reclaiming some of this space could be repurposed into a variety of infrastructure
that enriches the overall wellbeing of the city’s residents and reduce the ecological
footprint of car use.
The intent of my project is to encourage an understanding of the subject matter
through interactive sensory experience. I hope to deepen my knowledge by
translating written research into an interactive installation. This field predominantly
exists in academic and bureaucratic spheres, so I hope to engage the public in a
more vernacular way, bypassing technically terminology and using senses as a way
of communicating my findings. The city belongs to everyone who lives in it, so
discussions on urban design should reflect that.
How does car-centric design impact how we interact with urban space? How
might we take this for granted?
How can interactive sensory experiences help activate awareness about urban
mobility and accessibility?
How can alternative/artistic approaches to cartography help to foster an open
dialog about urban accessibility?
I believe that it is easy to take for granted how much space is taken up by cars,
particularly if one is a habitual driver. The intent for my project is lay bare the
restriction caused by car-centric design, and from there to ask the viewer what they
might envision as an alternative. For this project I will create an installation where
the viewer navigates a labyrinth-like space, reflecting the experience of navigating a
city on foot. It will be important for the viewer to move through the piece, as the
point will be to present the frustration caused by restrictive urban design. If
possible, I would like to account for intersections of access caused by
socioeconomic factors and/or disability. Perhaps there can be multiple paths with
that vary in difficulty to reflect this.
I have previously explored this theme in a soft surface piece where I sewed a map of
my neighbourhood on a cushion and inserted metal nails on the road space. The
intent was to render a comfortable object (home, community) uncomfortable
(roadways as sites of danger and restriction). For the coming project, I would like to
further explore how materials can reflect the hostility that roads and cars create in
urban spaces. Construction materials like cement or concrete as their physical
properties (cold, hard) reflect the unwelcoming nature of roads to the pedestrian.
Soft materials like paper or fabric could also be used as a contrast to the
construction materials. As a preliminary idea: paths would be delineated with
concrete structures. The path would be dotted with soft materials that are difficult
or impossible for the viewer to reach. The takeaway should be that, like this
installation, constructed spaces made up of design choices. Thus, there is an option
to choose an alternative in the future. Knowledge of this fact hopefully contributes
to the broader conversation of mobility in cities.