The human and ecological costs of the fashion economy we all
participate in are known by most, but the actions that have been
taken by the industry and the consumers to address the problem
have the effect of a band-aid on an hemorrhage. Many people
have investigated how to develop a circular fashion economy,
how to reintegrate post-production and post-consumer waste
back in the manufacturing chain. I simply believe there is no
sustainable way to do so, and that the best approach still remains
de-growth .
In our egocentric search for wellness, we have massively
increased our consumption of activewear, and along it , the
production of artificial and chemical based fibres. The recent
years have also brought us a spike in polypropylene consumption
in the form of the blue disposable masks that became an
everyday necessity. All together, in 2020, petrochemical-based
synthetics dominated the global fibre production by 62%. A few
years ago, I read about the ability some mushrooms have to
degrade polymers, which is called bioremediation. For this
research project, I wish to investigate the possible capabilities of
commonly found oyster mushrooms to break down different types
of fibres and its possible applications as a waste management
solution.

Can mushrooms help us decompose fabric waste back to soil?
What type of fibre ( synthetic (petrochemical), artificial, natural)
can be broken down by mushrooms and in what capacity?
Are the mushrooms and soil produced by this process safe for
consumption? What are possible uses for them?
Using a mix of garment production fabric off-cuts collected from 3
different sources : polyester fabric from medical blouses
production, rayon/spandex fabric from a local factory and organic
cotton from a local fabric mill, and substrate, I will create growing
bags in which I will inoculate oyster mushroom spores. Oyster
mushrooms are fast growers, so I am hoping to be able to get a
few trials at getting optimal conditions to get a healthy mycelium
and observe the decomposition effects in the fabric/substrate mix.
Oyster mushroom spawns and the other supplies necessary are
easy to purchase online. I would like to have access to the Milieux
institute speculative life biolab for this project but I am also
considering conducting this experiment in my own home. I have
experience growing edible mushrooms in my kitchen and find it
would add an interesting domestic aspect to the project. It would
be fun to be able to give workshops teaching people to reproduce
it in their own homes.
I am also hoping to include, in parallel to this project, interviews
with the factory, brand and mill that will supply the fabric scraps,
asking them how they currently manage their fabric waste, what 
facilities and services they wish would exist for that, what would
help them reduce their waste, etc..