My problematic revolves around how visual media through the advancements of technology i.e the vessels: screens, colour,
projections, light and overall visual media disproportionately disembodies people from the physical landscape. We tend to see
the division between physical materiality and digital space as two separate things but in essence, they are this overlapping and
interwoven materiality which is undoubtedly dominated by digital information if we consider how we absorb information.
This provides an interesting opportunity to explore what defines an image and its associations through the use of projections
and different types of generated and found materials.
Most of all easily accessible entertainment, business tools, information and interaction is done through the projection of
visual/digital media on various platforms. This ultimately contributes to how we situate and understand the world around us.
The screen and the projections through the screen are symbolic to the artificiality of information and the illusion
of reality. This is turn describes the disembodiment of intelligent life within the physicality of the real world landscape.
Another key symbolic element in this problematic is the human eye. Related mostly to optics, the way we take in light and
imagery through electrical signals that are sent to the brain in order to interpret and understand information.
The technological landscape skews the natural landscape because digital images over-saturate natural images so the division
of what is real and digital is blurred, thus explaining this disembodiment and separation from reality by easily accessible visual
media through the use of the screen and its associates (colour, media, light, projections etc...).
To further contextualize, what is truly interesting in this problematic is the relation between the technologically streamlined
image and how we understand it through its materiality and/or its existence, significance and emotion within a given context.
HOW CAN THE DIGITAL SCREEN BE ANALYSED AND REINTERPRETED
THROUGH PROJECTIONS AND MULTIMEDIA ARTFORMS TO BRIDGE THE GAP
BETWEEN TECHNOLOGY AND THE URBAN LANDSCAPE WHILE MAKING ONE
AWARE OF ITS IMPACT ON THE DETACHMENT OF REALITY?
HOW CAN VISUAL/DIGITAL MEDIA BE USED IN DIFFERENT WAYS TO PROVOKE
CRITICAL THINKING ABOUT OUR DISCONNECTION FROM THE DIGITAL AND
URBAN LANDSCAPE?
IF THE DIGITAL WORLD IS A SIMULACRUM OF REALITY, WHAT ARE SOME WAYS
TO USE DIGITAL MEDIA IN A CRITICAL FORM TO BRING AWARENESS TO THE
DISPARITY AND SEPERATION OF THE BODY/MIND WITHIN A REAL WORLD
SETTING OR CONTEXT?
In order to answer my research questions, I would have to do a lot of research on the materiality of the computer screen, research on
the socio-political and economic context of the visual image, research and experimentation on how the meaning of an image changes
within a different context i.e with different natural materials and the materials within an urban landscape. The goal is also to answer
further questions along the way like what is really an image? What does it mean in a urban landscape? Does the meaning of an image or
video change when projected in a different context or on a different material or with a different type of technology? What defines the
materiality of the image? The hardware behind the projection of it, the programming or the image itself? I want to find out what certain
visual cues bring the material in the foreground and vice versa. Hopefully to bring forth a critical way in provoking conceptual thought
through interpretation of the media, material/surface and method to display the information.
My goal is also to research all kinds of visual material that I will produce in after effects but also visual material from a variety of platforms
like youtube, Netflix, the Concordia library, the BANQ (and more) so that I can experiment with projecting them on different surfaces
around the city, projecting them on bio-plastics and garbage I find around me. This will provide a framework or visual library with many
experimentations that I can base myself from to expand my research into the visual nature of the image, its materiality, its significance and
its orientation within various contexts. Also, an important aspect of my research to analyse the technology behind projections of the past.
How they work and what associations I can make from the era in which they were used/conceived.
First things first is to research the subjects listed above to give me a theoretical approach in tackling my insite experiments. While
I continue my theoretical research, I will generate and also find visual imagery online that is interesting to look at or has interesting
significance. Then I will travel around the city of Montreal and project this visual media on different surfaces and objects I find along my
way with a portable Pico projector for at least 5-10 different experimentations per adventure. If necessary (and or in some cases), I will
projection mapp these images on those surfaces and objects with the use of the Isadora program which I will progressively get familiar with.
After that, I will analyse all of my data and continue to generate and project visual media on bio-materials that I will make at home so I
can observe their difference visually and materially while thinking about the socio-political and economic associations with these images,
surfaces and materials. I need to establish a framework with my intentions so I may dig deeper and zone in on a specific topic. 