
THE WORLD IS TIRED

Invisible threat, Micro-plastics, Car Culture, Propaganda,

Worldwide governments have agencies that have viable plans to deal with the life cycle of used tires.(“CATRA - Canadian Association of Tire Recycling Agencies”)(“End-of-Life Tyres 2015”)

This is not the problem

“The tire is one polymeric material which showed a significant increase in the last decade. Reports from several tire and rubber associations, annual tire production is around 1.4 billion units with around 17 million tons of used tires every year”(Sitepu et al. 1). Imagine if you will that if you divided that number by 4 and that would be how many cars use those tires. Every 5 years /60000km it is recommended to get a new tire. But why? The tire wears down and it becomes unsafe.

This is not the problem.

There is a viable plan for the big picture view of tire end of life but the bigger problem will continue to exist as long as we have car culture.

The emission of tyre wear and tear from cars was estimated for different countries using two different methods, i.e., using (1) emission factors per vehicle-km and total mileage; and (2) the number of tyres used combined with their weight loss. Both methods resulted in comparable results, forming an indication that emissions can be reliably estimated with either of both methods. The emission per capita is in the same order of magnitude for all

countries, i.e., between 0.23 and 1.9 kg/year, with a 4.7 kg/year outlier for the USA.(Kole et al.) If we multiplied this amount by the estimated amount of cars on the road (~1.4 billion) the sum would be between 161000 and 1.3 million tons per year of micro particle pollution.(Sandré et al.)

Our culture moves forward with the illusion that recycling is the end of the tire waste and yet have no way to deal with the invisible threat that develops through the life cycle of the artifact.

This is the problem.

How can I make this invisible threat visible. Is there a way to transform it into an artifact that makes it visible and easily understood? What way to repurpose the findings through a method of extracting the pollutant.

I want to explore the damage done invisibly that isn’t collected anywhere and make it visible.

I will extract equivalent amount of rubber dust from tires through methods of sanding and use this dust in a way to demonstrate the amount of this pollutant is being produced annually.

I also plan to go to major areas where there is major traffic thoroughfare and do spot check analysis of the dirt found there.

I am yet unclear as to what I will do to display my findings. I will want to do something that displays the quantifiable amount of microplastics in some sort of object that represents the damage done. Further research into the appropriate materials needed to contain and display findings.