I believe that it is easy to take for granted how much space is taken up by cars,
particularly if one is a habitual driver. The intent for my project is lay bare the
restriction caused by car-centric design, and from there to ask the viewer what they
might envision as an alternative. For this project I will create an installation where
the viewer navigates a labyrinth-like space, reflecting the experience of navigating a
city on foot. It will be important for the viewer to move through the piece, as the
point will be to present the frustration caused by restrictive urban design. If
possible, I would like to account for intersections of access caused by
socioeconomic factors and/or disability. Perhaps there can be multiple paths with
that vary in difficulty to reflect this.
I have previously explored this theme in a soft surface piece where I sewed a map of
my neighbourhood on a cushion and inserted metal nails on the road space. The
intent was to render a comfortable object (home, community) uncomfortable
(roadways as sites of danger and restriction). For the coming project, I would like to
further explore how materials can reflect the hostility that roads and cars create in
urban spaces. Construction materials like cement or concrete as their physical
properties (cold, hard) reflect the unwelcoming nature of roads to the pedestrian.
Soft materials like paper or fabric could also be used as a contrast to the
construction materials. As a preliminary idea: paths would be delineated with
concrete structures. The path would be dotted with soft materials that are difficult
or impossible for the viewer to reach. The takeaway should be that, like this
installation, constructed spaces made up of design choices. Thus, there is an option
to choose an alternative in the future. Knowledge of this fact hopefully contributes
to the broader conversation of mobility in cities.
The pothole is, for me, a focal point of this problematic. We have all had direct experiences
with these artifacts, to one degree or another. An emblematic part of the discourse of
Montréal culture, we have arrived at a point
where there is an expectation that roads be hard
to traverse. Not only this, it speaks to a larger
problematic: the continued prioritization of a
hierarchy of mobility, whereby the motor vehicle has primacy. The pothole creates impassibility for cyclists, pedestrians, those who have
accessibility needs, etc., ultimately leading to a
hazardous climate of traversing the mobilityscape
This prompts me to look at these ‘sites of
distress’ as a physical thing, and not as a lack. These
negative spaces hold within them a rich quality of
materiality, one which remains largely unexplored.
The spaces we love and the unspaces we
unlove are in diametric opposition. What if we
were to attempt to understand the rich material memory that comes from deterioration?
we can quantify what it takes to make something. What does it take to unmake something?
how can we conceptualize the absence of something as a standalone material object?
where does the material go, when we can no longer see it?
overlooked space
memory
sink/spill
anti-material
speculation
solid/void
All of this presents an opportunity for different interventions:
pothole mapping (city block radius) + cartographic/topographic
output
singular pothole site mapping (LiDAR) + mould casting to create
new object output (can I intervene at singular pothole site with new
object?)
speculative exploration of material embodiment and memory (does
this carry with it further implications of infrastructure critique?)
To explore this concept will require addressing several
different pathways to thinking about the non-material as
material. From a human perspective, we can look at how
we react and interact with the pothole, and establish their
prevalence as part of the everyday.
In an anthropological sense, we can look at documentation and cartography. In doing so, we would create a
new way of presenting a view of the city (there is salience
here, in the potential to approach this topographically).
In terms of the material itself there is research to
be done, in order to examine if there is a metric to measure road stress; something which allows us to extrapolate
the experience of the material unbecoming.
I have not given much thought as to what material I could
interface with the anti-material (pothole) at this stage. But,
I am forced to draw parallels with my own experiences with mycelium. Because we are using this material to
grow into a predefined space, the end outcome is superseding the potentiality of the material. Mycelium was
something that challenged the limitations of my environment; Whereas I was looking for controlled outcomes
in uncontrollable conditions, it would be interesting to
embrace a wilderness of outcomes.
