An (all-time) glow
In this project, I am re-examining light pollution as an aesthetically and conceptually-charged
poetic mediascape.
Artificial light is one of the most revolutionary inventions of the late 19th and 20th centuries.
Despite shaping life as we know it, as well as being a key component of the Anthropocene, it
has brought about an array of psychological, ecological, and evolutionary implications for
human, animal, and plant populations Light pollution, defined as “the inappropriate or
excessive use of artificial light”, is raising in magnitude across the globe, and its impacts spill
into almost every ecosystem. It can take many forms, including excessive brightness of the
sky, which dissolves the night sky over urban areas; light trespass, and unnecessary light
falling where it is not needed. Light pollution disrupts the natural patterns of wildlife,
contributes to the increase in CO2 levels in the atmosphere, disrupts human sleep, and
obscures the stars in our night sky.
To begin, I was trying to formulate my dataset as my material on a macro level. Upon
researching the different light pollution data sources, I found out about NASA’s black marble
product, and I tried using their portal to export a set of data over a specific timeframe. The hdf5
files were very big. I imported them into software that can analyze geospatial data, and I was
able to visually plot them on a map, but I couldn’t figure out how to get the coordinates of the
light pollution map as values to work with. Upon facing these obstacles, I wanted to escape the
trap of having to acquire big data in order to make didactic sense of light pollution.
In my process, I started projecting light from different sources on different surfaces and
through different materials, and I realized that if I can repurpose it into an ambient atmosphere,
in a sense I would be upcycling light as a material. It started with looking at light pollution from
a macro point of view, and then I went to using micro-light through a prism of materials. I am
interested in the pleasant experiences I can create out of light pollution, addressed in an
experimental setting, and the poetic aspect of containing light pollution in an enclosure as a
way to contain it.