Data collection is an integral part of our

lives. Products of mass consumption, like fash-
ion, have become the results of positive feed-
back loops created by data collected from users

and regurgitated through different marketing
channels. An interesting case study is the giant

online fashion retailer Shein, which “may dis-
close your personal information for any purpose

[considered] appropriate” to produce thousands
of new products everyday (Shein, 2022; Curry,
2022; Dilys, 2022; Al Mallees, 2022). In short,

the financially thriving model produces increas-
ing number of objects in response to its users’

personal data inputted through its quiet algo-
rithm.

An interesting notion Sara Ahmed exam-
ines in Queer Phenomenology is how “objects

are objects insofar as they are within my hori-
zon; it is in the fact of reaching “towards them”

that makes them available as objects for me”,

implying that objects made available to pur-
chase through screens are devoided of physical-
ity until they are within our reach (Ahmed 2006,

55). Indeed, Byung-Chul Han would agree that

the objects we ‘reach for’ through a screen are
mere information, non-things; that we are in

fact “obsessed not with things but with infor-
mation” and that “the present hyperinflation and

proliferation of things are precisely a sign of
an increasing indifference towards them” (Han
2022, 2). The more data we put in this world,
the more it is used to create more information
we obsess over, non-things, as opposed to real
things we no longer care for. However, one
must remember that the medium is the message,

and both are an extensions of humanity, mean-
ing the objects we create through our algorithms

are just a reflection of our own personal data;
these non-things are not created out of thin air

by algorithms that trained themselves (McLu-
han and Fiore 2001).

Many artists have recently been interest-
ed in creative endeavors with and through AI,

though fewer have been discussing the relation-
ships between big data and its impact on our

modern society.
Sculptor Ben Snell trained a robot with
classical sculptures from museum collections

and asked it to produce its own piece inspired
from them. He bserved two realities, the final

product and its process of being; the “material-
ity upon the impossibly immaterial [...] pro-
cessing power” of the computer and data that

generated it (Snell 2020).
While Snell remains in controlled and
static data environments, Mimi Onuoha, artist
and researcher, created her Pathways project
in the intent to question and contextualize the
users’ “relationship with their personal data”
(Onuoha 2015). By gathering 4 weeks worth of
mobile data of 4 different groups, Onuoha was
able to trace back people’s lives in their most
intimate moments.
In a more mischievous way of working
with data, multimedia artist Paolo Cirio ‘stole’
more than 10 million mugshots, blurred them,
shuffled the data attached to them and posted
them on his website (Cirio 2016). By indexing
unusable data on the internet, Cirio was able
to lower ‘mugshot websites’ user traffic from

which he took the original pictures which ac-
tively advertise and black mail people charged

and/or convicted of crimes.
In their own specific ways, these artists

all contextualized and materialized the circum-
stances the datasets they worked with came to

be, though none have come close to exploring
its impact on the way we consume fashion.
Unsustainable production models assisted by
AI are able to thrive in screen-based societies
because one becomes desensitized to the sheer

quantity of data and information available on-
line, dissociating it from any form of materiali-
ty.
How do we speculate on how objects come to be through the algorithmic
calculations of our own personal data?
How can we make the process of data collection more transparent and
material to a wider audience, especially unaware users?

How can we recontextualize ‘big data’ as situated narratives of our per-
sonal lives instead of objects of data collection?

The challenge is to simplify and materialize immaterial and complex no-
tions that are often made inaccessible to the greater population. Industrial

secrecy also means greater speculations and attempts at understanding

exactly what data goes into algorithmic marketing and production mod-
els, as well as the reasoning behind its results. Further technical research

on the mechanics of artificial intelligence systems will be required, as well

as extensive research on Shein’s own strategies and technologies. Howev-
er, ethnographic research will be prioritize as a process and as final data

visualization method to recontextualize and render the experience more
personal and material.
This project embeds itself within a greater research question about the
notions of data patterns in consumerist culture. Though the final outcome
may take the shape of wearable and soft surface materials, the present
goal is to form iterative and low-tech speculations of what the process of

creation through AI may, or may not, look like, within the fashion indus-
try. The outcome should be a visual and/or material rendering of recon-
textualized online data through a personal approach. The research will

start with an auto-ethnographic logbook, and using Shein as a case study,

speculate on its algorithmic mechanics. Depending on the results gath-
ered from that stage, the project may unfold in many ways, though should

remain an object, or iterations of personal data collections.